## History:
initial, Scoob (Nov. 2016)

ajs - 6091e9a, 39df73f, 2355e1b, beffe23, a18d8de

JM - this one

---

## 1) - Intro

Monero is secure, untraceable, electronic cash. It is open-source, decentralized, and freely accessible to all.
In this video, we will focus on ring signatures.
 
## 2) - Technology recap
 
In our last video, we illustrated how stealth addresses in Monero protect recipient’s privacy by preventing outputs from being associated with their public address.
In every transaction, a one-time destination public key is generated by the sender to indicate who can spend an output in a later transaction.
Stealth addresses ensure privacy of the recipient since all outputs are unlinkable.
On the input side of the transaction, the sender's privacy is protected with the use of ring signatures.

## 3) - The Terms - Ring Signatures, Ring CT

A ring signature is a type of digital signature in which a group of possible signers are fused together to produce a distinct signature that authorizes a transaction.
This is analogous to the signing a check from a joint bank account, but with the actual signer remaining unknown.
The digital signature is made up of the actual signer combined with non-signers to form a "ring," where all members are equal and valid.
In the context of ring signatures, a signer is the one-time signing key matching the output being spent and the sender is the wallet possesing that key.
This feature helps the sender hide the origin of the transaction, becoming in a sense camouflaged from detection among the other ring members.
There is no way an outside observer can tell which of the possible signers belongs to a sender.

The non-signers are outputs freely picked from the blockchain, and repurposed as "fake" inputs in a new transaction.
Over the course of time, past transaction outputs could be reused in this way multiple times.
A transaction’s “ringsize” is the number of fake inputs plus one (the “real” input, which is the one actually getting spent).
On the output end of a transaction, brand new destinations are created for each recipient according to the stealth address scheme.

To further enhance privacy, Monero implements “Ring Confidential Transactions” (also known as Ring CT).
With Ring CT, the transaction amounts are hidden.

At this point, you might ask if the sender and recipient information are private and the amounts are hidden, what would prevent someone from spending the same output twice.
This problem is addressed with the use of something called a “key image.”
In addition to signing the spending of some input in a ring signature, a key image of the real input is computed and made part of the ring signature as well.
The key image is another cryptographic key, derived from the real input. However, knowing a key image doesn't make it possible to determine the input which created it.
Since trying to spend the same input again would result with the same key image, the network could detect that you're attempting a double-spend and reject the transaction.

Now, let’s walk through an example to see how these concepts tie together.

## 4) – Ring Signatures Transaction

Alice wants to send Monero to Bob with a “ringsize” value of five inputs, and one of them will be the real one getting spent.
Alice is able to pick the remaining four fake inputs by randomly retrieving past transaction outputs from the blockchain.
Alice’s transaction would have four fake inputs plus the “real” input.
At the output end, a brand new output destined for Bob is created.
This forms a group of five possible signers, but one input actually getting spent.
An outside observer, including Bob himself, would not know which of the five possible signers belonged to Alice’s wallet and got spent in the transaction.
The amount of Monero being sent to Bob is also unknown by the public.
However, with the key image of the transaction, the network is still able to verify that the Monero being sent to Bob has not been spent before.
As you can see, Monero protects the privacy of the sender by obscuring the source of outputs and the amounts and in doing so, ensures outputs remain untraceable with plausible deniability.
This makes monero transactions untraceable, as you can't trace back the origin of some output. Further back one tries to trace it, more possibilites there will be for the origin.

## 5) - Conclusion

Ultimately, when ring signatures with the Ring CT protocol are used in conjunction with stealth addresses, the privacy of both the sender and recipient are protected in a trustless and verifiably secure manner.

## 6) - The end?

If you are interested in what makes Monero the leading privacy-centric cryptocurrency, please check out the other videos or visit getmonero.org.
