##History:

https://paste.fedoraproject.org/533517/83578148/ - initial, JM

https://paste.fedoraproject.org/536623/ - Scoob

https://paste.fedoraproject.org/542498/14859669 - JM

lost :( 

alvinjoelsantos - commit: ee7b7e1

JollyMort - commit: f2a8892

scoobybejesus - commit: 53a5b45

alvinjoelsantos- commit: df603fd

knaccc: https://github.com/alvinjoelsantos/promo-video/issues/3

scoobybejesus: https://github.com/alvinjoelsantos/promo-video/issues/3

scoobybejesus: https://paste.fedoraproject.org/paste/c6UG6HGOXIoZFeo72sZsCF5M1UNdIGYhyRLivL9gydE=

alvinjoelsantos- commit: e14a015, c7e30df, 35062ab

this one

---

##1) - Intro

Monero is secure, electronic, untraceable cash. It is open-source, decentralized, and freely accessible to all. 
In this video, we will focus on the concept of stealth addresses.
 
##2) - Technology recap

Let's take a step back, and recap some concepts from the previous video.
We learned that Monero exist on the blockchain in the form of outputs.
When you own Monero, it means that you have exclusive control over some of these outputs.
When you transmit funds to another user, you are announcing to the network that you wish to deplete some of your outputs to create brand new outputs for a recipient.
Well, buckle your seatbelts, because we're about to get technical.

##3) - The Term - Stealth Addresses

The phrase “stealth address” refers to the overall scheme in Monero, which allows users to have a single address that can be publically shared, but still be able to receive payments that are unlinkable to any specific address.
The sender creates a random one-time destination numeric string for every transaction on behalf of the recipient.
Only the sender and receiver can determine where a payment was sent.
An outside observer cannot tell if any transaction belongs to a standard address or link two addresses together.

##4) - One-time Destinations

A Monero standard address consists of two cryptographic keys, a public view key and a public spend key, which are packed together into a 95-character address.
This results in Monero standard addresses being nearly twice as large as Bitcoin addresses.
When someone sends Monero, the sender’s wallet will unpack the standard address to extract the recipient’s public keys.
A unique output is created with the use of the recipient’s public spend key, public view key, and random data generated by an elliptic curve algorithm.
The sender’s wallet will then encapsulate this output, a shared secret, the amount of Monero being sent into a cryptographically signed container and transmit the transaction to a one-time public key, which is also computed from the recipient’s public keys.
One-time public keys reside on the blockchain and can be seen by everyone. Even though everyone can see the one-time public keys, no one knows which standard addresses are associated to any particular transaction.
Recipients are able to scan the blockchain and locate their one-time public keys (outputs) by re-computing the shared secret with their wallet’s private view key.
 
##5) - Tie-in to ring signatures

As you can see, the stealth address process protects the privacy of recipients.
The sender's privacy is shielded with the use of ring signatures.
Ring signatures help obfuscate the source of transactions, by including various foreign outputs with the “real” output.
 
##6) - The end?

In our next video, we’ll discuss the ring signature concept in more detail and see how this feature advances untraceability in Monero.
If you are interested in what makes Monero the leading privacy-centric cryptocurrency, please check out the other videos or visit getmonero.org.
